[Music]
okay you're ready here are 12 ways to
escape the summer heat if you don't have
an air-conditioner or how to boast in
your post that you are not going to
roast or become toast when summer
becomes most hot one of the ways to beat
the summer heat is to crank up the AC to
its highest possible setting and seek
relief in the cold air it puffs out 24/7
that's until you receive the electric
bill
the shocking amount written on it is
enough to send chills down your spine
metaphorically but can you really live
without an air conditioning unit how can
you survive when the temperature outside
gets up to a hundred degrees Fahrenheit
you're now faced with a decision of
whether to use the AC or not because
your savings will be as dry as the
Sahara Desert if this continues hey
don't worry
we here at bright side have searched for
ways to escape the sweltering heat if
you don't have AC or if you have plans
to remove it so here we go tip number
one close the windows in the morning to
keep a room cool you should air it out
properly shut the windows when the
temperature outside is higher than 75
degrees Fahrenheit and open them when
the temperature drops below that the
lowest temperature of the day is usually
between 4 a.m. and 7 a.m. so open your
windows in the morning and after 8 p.m.
number 2 choose the right curtains to
prevent the sun's heat from entering
your house it's important to use the
right curtains now you might think
fabrics made of thick and dark materials
are great as they block out the Sun hmm
nope they do the opposite
according to UCSB science line a dark
object of a given color will absorb more
photons than a light object of the same
color meaning that it will absorb more
heat and become warmer
gofer linen fabrics with light neutral
colors why linen fabrics this type of
cloth is made from eco-friendly
materials moreover it's hypoallergenic
and mold resistant consider your curtain
project as a mini summer makeover number
three throw away the carpets rugs and
sofa pillows alright this mini makeover
is escalating quickly however if you
don't want that heat to stay inside your
home it's better to get rid of things
that collect dust carpets rugs and sofa
pillows this will make the air cleaner
and cooler Australia's Environment
Protection Authority Victoria says
airborne dust reduces air quality and
visibility in addition carpets and rugs
are more suitable for cold weather so
when you lay carpets on your floor it is
the same as when you put on a sweater or
jacket in the summer so think about what
happens when you install wall-to-wall
carpet in your house the best flooring
options to keep a house cool our marbled
bamboo hardwood and tiles number four
cool down a room with a wet towel in wet
floor when airing your room wet a towel
and hang it in front of an open window
it'll help cool down your home quickly
but don't leave the towel there
overnight a room that is too wet can
also become very humid in the past
before air conditioners existed people
used to wet their floors the room
temperature would drop immediately and
it would be comfortable enough to fall
asleep don't try this at home though
because you could break a bone or two a
safer solution is to choose the proper
floor number five use ceiling fans they
are cheap maximizing space and cooling
down a room pretty well if you have this
type of fan make sure that the switch is
set to summer mode many fans have two
modes for different seasons the other
mode is for winter if you can't find a
switch check the fan blades they should
rotate counterclockwise so that the air
is pulled upward which lets the breeze
circulate around the row
besides the rotation setting shop for
the right ceiling fan the US Department
of Energy suggests that a fan with a
diameter of 36 to 44 inches is perfect
for rooms up to 225 square feet fans
with a diameter greater than 52 inches
should be used in larger rooms however
not all houses can be equipped with this
type of fan it is only appropriate if
the room is at least eight feet high
otherwise you may get a haircut you
don't want or worse number six make a
homemade air conditioner now things are
getting more interesting is this a
solution to get rid of our money
gobbling air conditioners huh bring it
on we hate to burst your bubble but it's
not really yeah this trick can chill you
and your head are you still interested
good here we go a regular fan just moves
air around the room and it's motor
actually heats the room but any fan can
be turned into a real air conditioner
freeze a few bottles or other containers
with water and place them in front of a
fan cool air will be blown all over the
room when the heat is strong freeze two
sets of bottles and change them every
four to five hours this is also the
perfect opportunity to make ice pops
yeah number seven change your bed linen
now if your bed linen is made of satin
or synthetics it's better to replace it
with cotton or silk sheets cotton sheets
absorb sweat well and cool down the skin
another way to cool down your bed is to
put your sheets and pillowcases in the
fridge before you go to sleep
make your bed with them just don't put
your comforter in the freezer as this
can make you sick mattresses with memory
foam show a high capacity for heat
retention there are good for winter but
not for summer you can try adding a
cotton mattress topper which you can
also put in the fridge number eight
choose the perfect sleepwear wear
pyjamas made of cotton as they breathe
better or sleep without clothes on hmm
are we suggesting that you sleep naked
haha there are studies claiming the
benefits of sleeping in the buff the
University of Rochester says it could
improve the quality of sleep researchers
at the University of Amsterdam discloses
that it lowers your body temperature and
here comes the best part
researchers at the University of
Melbourne conducted a study and found
out that it makes you more comfortable
with your own skin thus increasing your
self-esteem and confidence and when
you're confident you might have the
chance to earn higher wages and be
promoted and then be able to afford real
air-conditioning without feeling the
pinch in your wallet number 9 shut off
the lights when not in use this doesn't
only reduce the hot temperature around
the house but the utility bill as well
opt for compact fluorescents and LEDs
over incandescent lightbulbs it's better
to stick with LED lighting because it
has a longer lifespan about 25,000 hours
it's cost-effective too number 10
no you're cooling spots grab an ice pack
or cold compress if you don't have these
wet a banana oops I mean bandana or wrap
an ice cube in a cloth place it over the
pulse points of your elbows wrists groin
neck and ankles
number 11 stay hydrated
in other words drink lots of water this
is simple to do yet some of us are too
lazy to drag our feet over to the fridge
why is it so important to stay hydrated
during summer
well the deadly counterpart of hydration
is dehydration according to the American
Heart Association dehydration is a
serious condition that can lead to
problems ranging from swollen feet or
headaches to life-threatening illnesses
like heatstroke
there are also water rich fruits you can
eat during summer watermelon
strawberries cantaloupe peaches oranges
tomatoes yes it's a fruit grapefruit and
coconut - notch up the coolness factor
cut them into chunks put them in freezer
bags and store them in the freezer
you'll have an instant summer treat in
no time number 12 adjust the AC settings
now if you can't part with your AC tweak
its settings scientists say that we
sleep better at a temperature of about
64 degrees Fahrenheit so try to sustain
this temperature if possible many air
conditioners have a function for
temperature retention or night mode it
could be called something different
health save or night mode so check the
manual in this mode an air-conditioner
turns on and off maintaining a steady
temperature in the room if your air
conditioner doesn't have this function
shut all the windows and then turn on
the air conditioner for two to three
hours on the coldest mode then turn it
off so have you tried some of the tips
in this video do you have a cooler
solution share it with us in the
comments don't forget to hit the thumbs
up button and share this video with your
family and friends sharing is caring you
know and subscribe to our channel to
chill with us on the bright side of life
[Music]
you